README.md, before:

nvram-faker
===========

When using emulation to run an application found in an embedded Linux firmware, such as a wireless router's web server, one of the main problems encountered is the application attempting to source NVRAM for configuration parameters.  A common library, `libnvram.so`, is often used in embedded Linux to abstract access to NVRAM.  This provides `nvram_get()` and `nvram_set()` functions to get and set configuration parameters.  The calls to `nvram_get()` will fail, since the emulated environment has no NVRAM.  Without configuration parameters the target application will likely fail to run.

`nvram-faker` is a simple library to intercept calls to libnvram using `LD_PRELOAD`.  By providing sane values in an INI-style NVRAM configuration file you can answer queries to NVRAM, enabling the application to start up and run.


BUILDING
--------------------------

There should be no external dependencies.  I have tested building in Ubuntu Linux.

You can build the shared library, `libnvram-faker.so`, simply by typing `make`.  However, you'll almost certainly want to cross-compile for your target architecture.  For convenience, I've provided shell scripts for building on big and little endian MIPS, since these are the most common architectures I work with.  The shell scripts set up your toolchain variables such as $CC to point to your cross-compilation tools, if they're in your $PATH.  If you need to cross compile with other architectures, such as ARM, this shouldn't be too hard to set up.


USING
-------------------------

Put `libnvram-faker.so` somewhere in your firmware's extracted filesystem.  Edit `nvram.ini` and put it in the root of the firmware's filesystem.  If you want to put the configuration file somewhere else, define `INI_FILE_PATH` at compile time however you like[1].  Set the `LD_PRELOAD` environment variable to load the library.

Every nvram query and the answer returned will be printed to standard output.  If the answer is not found, NULL is returned by `nvram_get` and the query is printed to the console in red, so it will easy to notice.

The library currently does not support calls to `nvram_set()`.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
-------------------------

I shamelessly aped this idea from Craig Heffner <cheffner@tacnetsol.com>, ([@devttyS0](https://twitter.com/devttyS0) on Twitter).  I improved on it by adding support for INI configuration and colorized console output.

INI support is provided by this excellent [project](http://code.google.com/p/inih/), which I have included in this source tree.

---

[1] You can export a `CFLAGS` environment variable on the command line to do this.

Commit message:

add build_and_run.sh and necessary symbols for libnvram-faker.so

README.md, after:

nvram-faker
===========

OVERVIEW OF THIS FORK
--------------------------
This is a fork of Zachary Cutlip's [nvram-faker](https://github.com/zcutlip/nvram-faker) with the following changes:

- More informative debug output
- The `build_and_run.sh` script to streamline developing and testing with `libnvram-faker.so`
- Resolve segmentation fault in debugging output
- Added additional symbols to `nvram-faker.c` such as `initialise_monitor_handles` and `__libc_fini_array` to avoid linking errors
- Add a preliminary `nvram_set()` function that logs debug output to prevent function calls to `libnvram.so`

By modifying nvram-faker in this way, I was able to more easily emulate and debug the NVRAM of a firmware image that I was testing.

When using emulation to run an application found in an embedded Linux firmware, such as a wireless router's web server, one of the main problems encountered is the application attempting to source NVRAM for configuration parameters.  A common library, `libnvram.so`, is often used in embedded Linux to abstract access to NVRAM.  This provides `nvram_get()` and `nvram_set()` functions to get and set configuration parameters.  The calls to `nvram_get()` will fail, since the emulated environment has no NVRAM.  Without configuration parameters the target application will likely fail to run.

`nvram-faker` is a simple library to intercept calls to libnvram using `LD_PRELOAD`.  By providing sane values in an INI-style NVRAM configuration file you can answer queries to NVRAM, enabling the application to start up and run.


BUILDING
--------------------------

There should be no external dependencies.  I have tested building in Ubuntu Linux.

You can build the shared library, `libnvram-faker.so`, simply by typing `make`.  However, you'll almost certainly want to cross-compile for your target architecture.  For convenience, I've provided shell scripts for building on big and little endian MIPS, since these are the most common architectures I work with.  The shell scripts set up your toolchain variables such as $CC to point to your cross-compilation tools, if they're in your $PATH.  If you need to cross compile with other architectures, such as ARM, this shouldn't be too hard to set up.


USING
-------------------------

Put `libnvram-faker.so` somewhere in your firmware's extracted filesystem.  Edit `nvram.ini` and put it in the root of the firmware's filesystem.  If you want to put the configuration file somewhere else, define `INI_FILE_PATH` at compile time however you like[1].  Set the `LD_PRELOAD` environment variable to load the library.

Every nvram query and the answer returned will be printed to standard output.  If the answer is not found, NULL is returned by `nvram_get` and the query is printed to the console in red, so it will easy to notice.

The library currently does not support calls to `nvram_set()`.


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
-------------------------

I shamelessly aped this idea from Craig Heffner <cheffner@tacnetsol.com>, ([@devttyS0](https://twitter.com/devttyS0) on Twitter).  I improved on it by adding support for INI configuration and colorized console output.

INI support is provided by this excellent [project](http://code.google.com/p/inih/), which I have included in this source tree.

---

[1] You can export a `CFLAGS` environment variable on the command line to do this.
